Welcome back. Before
we get started,
let's quickly review the
purpose of frameworks.
Organizations use frameworks as
a starting point to develop
plans that mitigate risks,
threats, and vulnerabilities to
sensitive data and assets.
Fortunately, there are
organizations worldwide that
create frameworks
security professionals
can use to develop those plans.
In this video, we'll
discuss two of
the National Institute of
Standards and Technology,
or NIST's frameworks
that can support
ongoing security efforts for
all types of organizations,
including for profit and
nonprofit businesses,
as well as government agencies.
While NIST is a US
based organization,
the guidance it provides
can help analysts all over
the world understand how to
implement essential
cybersecurity practices.
One NIST framework that we'll
discuss throughout
the program is
the NIST Cybersecurity
Framework, or CSF.
The CSF is a voluntary framework
that consists of standards,
guidelines, and best practices
to manage cybersecurity risk.
This framework is widely
respected and essential for
maintaining security
regardless of
the organization you work for.
The CSF consists of
five important core
functions, identify,
protect, detect,
respond, and recover,
which we'll discuss in
detail in a future video.
For now, we'll focus on
how the CSF benefits
organizations
and how it can be used to
protect against threats,
risks, and vulnerabilities by
providing a workplace example.
Imagine that one
morning you receive
a high-risk notification that
a workstation has
been compromised.
You identify the workstation,
and discover that there's
an unknown device
plugged into it.
You block the unknown
device remotely to stop
any potential threat and
protect the organization.
Then you remove the
infected workstation
to prevent the spread
of the damage and use
tools to detect any additional
threat actor behavior
and identify the unknown device.
You respond by investigating
the incident to determine
who used the unknown device,
how the threat occurred,
what was affected, and where
the attack originated.
In this case, you discover
that an employee was charging
their infected phone using
a USB port on their work laptop.
Finally, you do your best to
recover any files or data that
were affected and
correct any damage
the threat caused to
the workstation itself.
As demonstrated by
the previous example,
the core functions of
the NIST CSF provide
specific guidance and
direction for security
professionals.
This framework is used to
develop plans to handle
an incident appropriately
and quickly to lower risk,
protect an organization
against a threat,
and mitigate any potential
vulnerabilities.
The NIST CSF also expands
into the protection of
the United States
federal government with
NIST special publication,
or SP 800-53.
It provides a unified
framework for protecting
the security of
information systems
within the federal government,
including the
systems provided by
private companies for
federal government use.
The security
controls provided by
this framework are
used to maintain
the CIA triad for those systems
used by the government.
Isn't it amazing how all of
these frameworks and
controls work together.
We've discussed some really
important security topics
in this video that will
be very useful for you
as you continue your
security journey.
Because they're core elements
of the security profession,
the NIST CSF is
a useful framework that
most security professionals
are familiar with,
and having an
understanding of the NIST,
SP 800-53 is crucial
if you have an interest in
working for the US
federal government.
Coming up, we'll
continue to explore
the five NIST CSF functions and
how organizations use them
to protect assets and data.